# Artifact 3
## Database

The artifact that I chose to enhance for the Database enhancement is the same project I used for Artifact two, a project from CS300 Data Structures and Algorithms. It is a program that sorts computer science courses and their perquisites. The program reads courses from a csv file and then allows a user via a menu to load the courses into a data structure and then query the courses. A user can print a sorted list of the courses, or a user can print one individual course and listed prerequisites.
	
I chose to include this artifact in my ePortfolio because I knew it would show that I understand databases and their practical applications. In this case, I made improvements to the existing program that allow for scalability by incorporating a database to store course information. There is no need to use a csv file for the data anymore, which means updating course information is easier. Updating the course information can now be done by just adding, removing, or updating a course and its prerequisites in database. I set up the database locally in MongoDB Compass for ease of demonstration, but it can be hosted in the cloud to accommodate remote access and collaboration. 

By updating the program to allow connection to a database, the program now allows for scalability. With scalability, also comes the ability for advanced security measures. If this database were hosted on the cloud, there would be the ability to add Role-based Access and accommodate different types of users like administrator and student. Security measures like these help protect the data and are able limit who has permission to access it. For these reasons, I believe that this artifact enhancement shows many of my skills in software development such as; working with databases, the design and use of scalable systems, as well as security. My enhancements have made my original program more robust and gave it a real-world application.

I met the expected course outcomes with the enhancements on this artifact. I planned to meet all five of the course outcomes and I believe I have accomplished that. With this enhancement, I have made the artifact more collaborative. By storing the course information in a database, the data can now be accessed by multiple users, aligning with course outcome number one. The program is now also more reusable. While it currently manages computer science course information, it could easily be changed and be used for other curriculums making it applicable to different audiences and different contexts, aligning with course outcomes two. My understanding of design tradeoffs is demonstrated through making the choice to use a database instead of a CSV file, as well as choosing MongoDB over SQL because it fit the dataset better. The new database functionality is a great example of an innovative solution that accomplishes industry-specific goals by managing data efficiently and securely, demonstrating outcomes number four. My security mindset is reflected by my forward thinking about role-based access. I was able to consider potential vulnerabilities and made design choices that will help maintain advanced security measures protecting the data.

During the process of implementing this enhancement, I learned a lot more than I originally knew not only about databases, but about the flow of data and how the program interacts with it. I also learned about certain tradeoffs when trying to decide whether to just query the database every time or to load the courses from the database and work with the dataset from there. Ultimately, I decided not to query the database every time just because this dataset was small and I wanted to keep the structure simple. However, I was able to see the benefit of querying the database every time in order to keep the data up to date. If the dataset were larger and more people had access to changing it, the better design choice would most likely be to query the database consistently. I did face a challenge when making the updates for this enhancement. The challenge was a complier error that took me longer than expected to figure out. I investigated the compiler error and was able to determine it was the way I was writing a snippet of my code that did not agree with my driver. However, compatibility issues are just one of the many perks when attempting to use multiple drivers and environments.
